---
tags: 
- epstatus/0-🌰
- type/literature-note
- digital_garden
date_created: Thursday, May 11th 2023, 7:27:11 am
date_modified: Thursday, May 18th 2023, 6:15:57 pm
---
# Talk- The Expanding Dark Forest and Generative AI

## Metadata
* URL: [https://maggieappleton.com/forest-talk](https://maggieappleton.com/forest-talk)
* Author: Maggie Appleton 🧭
* Publisher: maggieappleton.com
* Published Date: 2023-04-27
* Tags: 

## Highlights
* “very online”. I live on Twitter and write a lot online. I hang out with people who do the
* 18th-century **men of letters**.
* **dark forest theory**
* dark forest at night - **a place that appears quiet and lifeless because if you make noise...
* ...the predators will come eat you.**
* **Yancey Striker in 2019** in the article **The Dark Forest Theory of the Internet**
* web can often feel lifeless, automated, and devoid of humans.
* Lots of this content is authored by bots, marketing automation, and growth hackers pumping out generic clickbait with ulterior motives.
* Low-quality listicles...
* ...productivity rubbish...
* ...insincere templated crap...
* ...growth hacking advice...
* ...banal motivational quotes...
* dramatic clickbait.
* **overwhelming flood of this low-quality content makes us retreat away from public spaces** of the web.
* lots of unnecessarily antagonistic behaviour, at scale.
* we **risk becoming a target.**
* **“main charactered”.**
* **“So You’ve Been Publicly Shamed,” Jon Ronson** [[So You've Been Publicly Shamed - Jon Ronson]]
* **difficult to find people who are being sincere, seeking coherence, and building collective knowledge in public.**
* I’m interested in enabling productive discourse and community building on at least some parts of the web.
* **semi-private spaces like newsletters and personal websites**
* retreat further into gatekept **private chat apps like Slack, Discord, and WhatsApp**.
* express our ideas, with things we say taken in good faith and opportunities for real discussions.
* none of this is indexed or searchable, and we’re hiding collective knowledge in private databases that we don’t own.
* They're trained on a huge volume of text scraped primarily from the English-speaking web.
* Jasper, Copy.ai, Moonbeam
* more sophisticated methods of prompting language models, such as "prompt chaining" or composition.
* Ought has been researching this
* libraries like LangChain
* Prompt chaining is a way of setting up a language model to mimic a reasoning loop in combination with external tools.
* It can pick from a set of tools to help solve the problem, such as searching the web, writing and running code, querying a database, using a calculator, hitting an API, connecting to Zapier or IFTTT, etc.
* “generative agents”.
* Just over two weeks ago, this paper **"Generative Agents
* These language-model-powered sims had some key features, such as a long-term memory database they could read and write to, the ability to reflect on their experiences, planning what to do next, and interacting with other sim agents in the game.
* There's a new library called AgentGPT
* It's now relatively easy to spin up similar agents that can interact with the web.
* we’re about to drown in a sea of informational garbage.
* absolutely swamped by masses of mediocre content.
* We'll need to find more robust ways to filter our feeds and curate good-quality work.
* Such as facilitating genuine human connections, pursuing collective sense-making and building knowledge together, and ideally grounding our knowledge of the world in reality.
* about digital gardening which is essentially having your own personal wiki on the web.
* make the web a space for collective understanding and knowledge-building,
* Why does it matter if a generative model made something rather than a human?
* differences between content generated by models versus content made by humans.
* First is its connection to reality. Second, the social context they live within. And finally their potential for human relationships.
* generated content is different because it has a different relationship to reality than us.
* This is the core of all science, art, and literature. We are trying to understand and teach each other things through writing.
* In some sense, it’s fully UNHINGED. The model cannot check its claims against reality because it can’t access reality.
* They're confused about who they are and where they are, but they're still super knowledgeable.
* So simulated humans that can only deal with language are missing a big part of what we perceive as human “reality.”
* Everything we say is contextual and relies on a shared social world.
* They know nothing about the cultural context of who they’re talking to.
* represent a very particular way of seeing the world.
* “Every way of life represents a communal experiment in living. The world itself is never settled in its structure and composition. It is continually coming into being.”
* Generating a mass of content from a very particular way of viewing the world funnels us down into a monoculture.
* When you read someone else’s writing online, it’s an invitation to connect with them.
* A lot of this talk is based on an essay called The Expanding Dark Forest and Generative AI
* how we might prove we’re human on a web filled with fairly sophisticated generated content and agents.
* On the new web, we’re the ones under scrutiny. Everyone is assumed to be a model until they can prove they're human.
* This raises both the floor and the ceiling for the quality of writing.
* They will try to outsource too much cognitive work to the language model and end up replacing their critical thinking and insights with boring, predictable work.
* they shouldn’t be letting language models literally write words for them. Instead, they'll strategically use them as part of their process to become even better writers.
* using them as sounding boards while developing ideas, research helpers, organisers, debate partners, and Socratic questioners.
* enter a phase of human centipede epistemology.
* going to use the text generated by these models to train new models. That tenuous link to the real world becomes completely divorced from
* We will begin to preference offline-first interactions.
* the only way to confirm humanity is to meet offline over coffee or a drink.
* Two people who know each of these people can confirm each other's humanity because of this trust network.
* create on-chain authenticity checks for human-created content on the web.
* reasonable to assume we’ll each have a set of personal language models helping us filter and manage information on the web.
* The product decisions that expand the dark forestness of the web are the problem.
* if you are working on a tool that enables people to churn out large volumes of text without fact-checking, reflection, and critical thinking. And then publish it to every platform in parallel... please god, stop.
* First, protect human agency. Second, treat models as reasoning engines, not sources of truth And third, augment cognitive abilities rather than replace them.
* more ideal form of this is the human and the AI agent are collaborative partners doing things together. These are often called human-in-the-loop systems.
* locus of agency remains with the human.
* treat models as tiny reasoning engines, not sources of truth.
* One alternate approach is to start with our own curated datasets we trust.
* We can then run many small specialised model tasks over them. We can do things like: * Summarise * Extract structured data * Find contradictions * Compare and contrast * Group by different variables * Stage a debate * Surface causal reasoning chains * Generate research questions
* These outputs aren't final, publishable material. They're just interim artefacts in our thinking and research process.
* This paper on **"Sparks of Artificial General Intelligence
* we should be augmenting our cognitive abilities rather than trying to replace them.
  * **Note**: Good picture too
* Language models are very good at some things humans are not good at, such as search and discovery, role-playing identities/characters, rapidly organising and synthesising huge amounts of data, and turning fuzzy natural language inputs into structured computational outputs.
* And humans are good at many things models are bad at, such as checking claims against physical reality, long-term memory and coherence, embodied knowledge, understanding social contexts, and having emotional intelligence.
* we should think of robots as animals – as a companion species who compliments our skills.
